1. HTTP is a protocol for intercommunication and transfer of data on the world wide web. There is also HTTPS which is more secure and encrypted. It governs how on the client side data is received and how a server sends it.

2. URL stands for uniform resource locator and is what you input into the search bar on your browser to visit a specific webpage, get an internet resource. It is composed of many components like the protocol, domain name, resources, port, query strings 

3. DNS stands for domain name system and it's like a phonebook for URLs that is used to return the IP address(es) of a specific domain name. 

4. A query string is a string of additional key value pairs passed to the end of a url which dictate something being searched for example in a GET request. The format is ? followed by pairs of key=value&...

5. Two HTTP verbs are GET and POST, GET does not have any side effects and searches/data are added to the query string. It is used to request a webpage for example, get data from a server, a specific resource, etc. POST is used to change something in the database for example, send data to a server, make a new post, it has side effects and the data is sent in the body of the request.

6. An HTTP request is a communcation sent from the client to the server asking for something, a webpage for example. It follows the HTTP protocol

7. An HTTP response is what the server sends back. The data is contained in the response body. 

8. An HTTP header is like an object containing metadata about the request or response. There is a header for access-language and another for content-type. Headers provide additional info about the request/response

9. The processes are 1) the browser maps the URL to an IP address with the help of a DNS 2) a request is made to the IP address 3) the server sends back a response and if the response if successful it has a 200 status code 4) The browser constructs the DOM from the html in the response and sends requests for further resources needed like CSS pages, JS, images, etc 5) Separate requests are made for these recources and the client receives a a resonse seaprately for each one